# Project-1
< https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Dkigawa/Project-1/master/CTD%20Assigment%20-checkpoint.ipynb>
Dennis Igawa
BME 450 
Project 1: CTD assignment 

Report Questions 
Question a) Compare the number of dives per day for shallow vs deep profilers:
In this project there are 3 pairs of shallow deep profilers to compare, and the vary greatly. 
The Oregon Slope Base and the Axial Base both showed a similar trend when comparing the how the number of dives changes when transitioning from shallow to deep. The trend that shallow reading has more dives than deep dives. For the Oregon slope base going from 6.5 dives in shallow and 2 dives in deep measurements. The Axial base shallow had 9 dives in one day, and only 2 dives in a day for dives. Both these devices are cabled arrays, suggesting that for cabled arrays that it is easier/faster to take measurements in shallow water (0 to 200 meters) than the 200+ meter measurements 
For the Oregon Offshore Cabled Profiler, for shallow data there was less than 1 dive per day. Comparing to all other CTD measurements this was the lowest number of dives in a day. Comparing to the deep profiler which had 12 dives for winter and 5 in the summer. There trend is the opposite of the cabled arrays, suggesting that the coastal endurance modules are able take measurements faster at the higher depths.

Question b) Where is the maximum value of ssp in each season? Explain why the max ssp should be there?
For the deep profilers’ measurements there is not a significant difference between the depths of speed of sounds with the changing seasons. For the Axial Base Deep Profiler the change in depth between season of the highest speed of sounds is less than half a meter, the speed itself is the same between seasons. This suggests that the changing of seasons does not have much influence on the speed of sound profile at extreme depths. This is supported by the fact that the season weather and temperature fluctuation is unlikely to reach that deep within the ocean. 
For the shallow profilers’ measurements there is the trend that the highest speed of sound is deeper in the winter. For the Oregon shelf surface piercing profiler the summer highest speed of sound is 1.4 meters below the surface of the water, this follows expectations because at low depths (not very deep) the calculation for the speed of sound is largely dominated by the temperature, and in the summer the hottest area of water is near the surface. There is significant difference in the Oregon Slow Base Shallow Profiler, in winter the highest speed of sound was 39 m below the surface, whereas in the summer it was at 6.6 meters. It is important to analyze the winter case, no longer is there a simple linear trend of decreasing speed of sound with depth. There is an initial upward trend, which possibly could be do to differences in salinity. Since it is winter, I would guess that the temperature of the surface is not rising that much and that much of the water is a similar temperature. This would suggest that the change salinity is what dominates the profile of the speed of sound in winter.
 
Question c) Compare the ssp profile in day and night of all profilers, explain what you find (effect of day vs night). And combined Question d) 
Since I was unable to create the series of loops to be able distinguish which dive belongs which time, however I can see where there is more variance between dives to try to understand the effect of the day night cycle on the ssp. 
For the Oregon Shelf Surface Piercing Profiler in the winter, there is significant variance in the first 20 meters of depth. As it gets deeper all the profiles seemingly align. This suggests for this profiler that the changing temperature cause from the sun cycle changes the temperature of the first 20 meters of water. However, they still obey a rather clumped trend only varying 1 or 2 m/s.
For summer unfortunately both measurements were taken at the start and end of the day of measurement. Meaning that they occurred at nearly the same times but on difference days. So the variance seen from the ssp is likely due to a different factor than the exposure to the sun. 
For the Oregon offshore cabled shallow profiler, there was only one dive recorded in the 24 hour period so I cannot compare easily since the depth is also changing as the day changes.
For the Oregon Offshore Cabled Deep Profiler the data is greatly scattered resulting in a very  “thick” line, this suggests that there is significant variance as the day goes on. While in the summer the profile is much tighter. This suggests that at this site there is significant temperature change in the winter but so much in the summer. However, this variance in data for the winter could just be exaggerated by the fact that there were 3 times as many dives as the summer, which could mean that the increased variance is due to natural variance within the ocean.
This trend continues in the Oregon Slope Base shallow profiler, where the winter has significantly more variance than the summer. This general trend suggests that there is more significant temperature variance in the winter than the summer. The variance in temperature is caused by the exposure to the sun, meaning that in the winter these areas may still experience hot morning but also experience significantly colder evenings, where in the summer the difference in temperature from the day and night isn’t as extreme.
Question e) Compare the average ssp profiles of all profilers recorded at the same day in winter and summer (effect of location).
Unfortunately, none of my dives were taken on the same day. This is due to the limitations of the source, for some dives data was pulled from 2016, which others I pulled from 2020. Data was often unavailable at many times, for winter data was gathered from November to January. With this would be a lurking variable that we would be unable to remove making it challenging to compare locations. 
